---
title: "perfSONAR 4.0 Release Notes"
keywords: release notes
# tags: [ home ]
sidebar: home_sidebar
permalink: releasenotes_4.0.html
toc: true
comments: false
---

Release Date
------------

April 17, 2017

Features/Changes
----------------

### pScheduler

-   pScheduler is a new component responsible for managing the execution
    of network measurements, or more generally tasks, in perfSONAR. It
    replaces the BWCTL and perfsonar-regulartesting components of
    previous version. When you want to run a network measurement in
    perfSONAR you ask a pScheduler server, either through the pscheduler
    command-line client or through the pScheduler API. See the
    introduction to pScheduler
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/pscheduler_intro.html) for more
    information.
-   Some major benefits of pScheduler include:
    -   **Increased Extensibility** - pScheduler provides a plug-in
        architecture for writing new tests, tools and archivers
    -   **More Diagnostics** - pScheduler maintains a database of its
        schedule. This schedule can be queried to see what has run, is
        running and will run. It also lets you see errors and output
        from tools when things do not work as expected.
    -   **Greater Access Control** - pScheduler has a revised limits
        system allowing you to define limits on more parameters and
        leaves room for further extension in the future.
-   pScheduler is a completely new codebase and protocol. It does NOT
    speak the BWCTL protocol natively but it does provide a backward
    compatibility strategy with BWCTL. In general you should not have to
    take any extra steps to continue testing to sites running BWCTL.
    Likewise, tests running to you should continue to operate normally
    as well. For more information see the document
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/pscheduler_intro.html#bwctl-backward-compatibility).

### New Graphs

-   This release contains new graphs based on the
    [react-timeseries-charts](https://github.com/esnet/react-timeseries-charts)
    library. The new graphs now stack different metrics for easier
    comparison without overloading axes. They also include a number of
    performance improvements over previous iterations of the graphs
-   The graphs can now be found at the URL
    http://your-host/perfsonar-graphs and visting
    http://your-host/perfsonar-graphs/graphWidget.cgi should redirect to
    the new location.
-   For more information on using the graphs see the document
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/using_graphs.html)

### CentOS 7 Support

-   perfSONAR now officially supports CentOS 7. The Toolkit ISOs are
    only available as CentOS 7. We will continue to support CentOS6 RPMs
    for this release, so existing CentOS 6 users will be able to
    auto-update.
-   CentOS 7 drops support for i386/i686 architectures and as a result
    there are only x86\_64 versions of the CentOS 7 perfSONAR packages
    available

### Debian Toolkit Support

-   Debian 8 Jessie, Debian 7 Wheezy and Ubuntu 14 Trusty now support
    the perfsonar-toolkit package installed as a bundle
-   perfSONAR support of Ubuntu 12 has been discontinued since the
    operating system has reached its end-of-life

### MaDDash 2.0

-   MaDDash has been integrated with the MaDAlert project developed by
    the University of Michigan as a subproject of the PunDit project.
    This means MaDDash now supports customizable patterns that can be
    used to highlight common problems and generate alerts based on
    those.
-   MaDDash now natively supports email notifications that are generated
    based off of the alerts above. You can define the notifications you
    want sent in your maddash.yaml file.
-   A new more color-blind friendly palette is now the default for
    MaDDash. A visitor may also change the colors they see by using a
    new pull-down in the settings menu. This pulldown will save the
    choice in a cookie so the user sees the same colors on future visits
    in the same browser.

### Expanded Role of MeshConfig Agent

-   In previous releases perfSONAR contained a *regular-testing*
    component for executing locally defined tests and a
    *meshconfig-agent* for reading remote meshes. In 4.0, these roles
    have been combined in the new *perfsonar-meshconfig-agent* daemon to
    streamline test management. The new daemon will monitor both remote
    meshes and a local configuration file for changes, and submit tasks
    to pScheduler as needed.
-   Restarts are no longer required when new tests are added and there
    is no longer a nightly cron job required to detect changes to remote
    meshes. Local changes will automatically be detected within a few
    seconds and remote mesh changes will be picked-up within an hour by
    default.
-   The /etc/perfsonar/regulartesting.conf file has been moved to
    /etc/perfsonar/meshconfig-agent-tasks.conf file as part of these
    changes. For upgraders, this file should be moved to its new
    location automatically and any previously-defined tests or archives
    should be maintained in the transition.

### MeshConfig Admin GUI Beta

-   An all-new GUI for developing mesh configurations has been developed
    which doesn’t require hand-editing of the configuration file. The
    new system produces configuration specific to each host. It is
    currently still considered beta, but you can find information about
    testing it [here](https://docs.perfsonar.net/mca.html).

### NDT and Web100 No Longer Included by Default

-   Starting with this release, new installs on all supported operating
    systems will not get NDT and the Web100 kernel by default. We will
    continue to provide Web100 kernels for perfSONAR 3.5.1 while it is
    still in its support window (6 months after the final release of
    4.0). At that time we will discontinue maintenance of the web100
    kernel and since NDT requires web100, that will not be supported
    either. We will be providing more communication on this decision and
    timeline through our user lists and on the web site.

Important Upgrade Notes
-----------------------

-   All your data and tests should be preserved during the upgrade of an
    existing 3.5 host. If for whatever reason this does not happen,
    please contact our user list if you need assistance.
-   Debian/Ubuntu users of perfSONAR 3.5.1 will not get this update
    automatically. See our [Debian upgrade
    guide](http://docs.perfsonar.net/install_debian.html#upgrading-from-3-5-1)
    for information on updating your host
-   For CentOS users running auto-updates, it may take up to 72 hours
    for your system to get the release depending on when mirrors sync
    and yum-cron runs.
-   You may want to reboot your host after update. While not strictly
    required, this may help with occasional issues we have see with
    httpd processes not restarting properly and similar
-   If you were pointing at the staging repository on a production host,
    you should remove it now. You can do so by running *yum remove
    Internet2-repo-staging*
-   perfSONAR 4.0 requires more CPU than previous versions as a result
    of some of the increased functionality. See our [hardware
    requirements page](http://docs.perfsonar.net/install_hardware.html)
    for more information.
-   We HIGHLY recommend you start using the new *pscheduler* command
    instead of the *bwctl* for all command-line tests since doing so has
    the potential to create scheduling conflicts. See the page
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/pscheduler_ref_bwctl.html) for a
    guide on how to convert BWCTL commands to pScheduler.
-   Web100 kernels are not provided for CentOS 7. The plan is to
    continue to provide Web100 kernels for CentOS 6 until October 17,
    2017.
-   NDT and NPAD are no longer installed for new installs since they
    require Web100. They will NOT be removed from existing systems
    automatically, but require a web100 kernel to operate so will either
    require an outdated kernel or cease to function after October 17,
    2017
-   The perfsonar-regulartesting package is gone ion perfSONAR 4.0. This
    means your */etc/perfsonar/regulartesting.conf* file has been moved
    to */etc/perfsonar/meshconfig-agent-tasks.conf*. It also means you
    no longer have a perfsonar-regulartesting daemon running
-   The */usr/lib/perfsonar/bin/generate\_configuration* script and
    associated cron are gone and now handled by the new
    perfsonar-meshconfig-agent daemon
-   The */usr/lib/perfsonar/bin/generate\_gui\_configuration* script and
    associated cron are gone and now handled by the new
    perfsonar-meshconfig-guiagent daemon. This daemon will now create
    traceroute and ping dashboards by default if you have the tests
    defined.

Detailed Bug Fixes and Changes
------------------------------

### Bundles and Shared Libraries

-   Added pScheduler to bundles
-   Removed NDT from bundles
-   Packaging support for CentOS 7
-   Added pScheduler Perl client
-   Install a default limits file as part of testpoint bundle
-   Fixed memory rounding errors in memory detection libraries
-   Detecting OpenStack, QEMU and BHYVE virtualization technologies and
    marking as VM in host info used by toolkit web page and
    lsregistrationdaemon
-   Fixed issue where toolkit page would not load because calls made in
    wrong order
-   perfsonar-core package now responsible for adding localhost MA to
    meshconfig-agent-tasks.conf instead of having set for all bundles
-   Added default ulimits file on CentOS 6 that increases allowed
    process count for httpd and pcheduler from 1024 to 4096. This
    matches the system default for CentOS 7.

### BWCTL

-   CentOS 7 packaging and systemd scripts

### Esmond

-   On CentOS 6, esmond now runs under Apache 2.4 from CentOS SCL with a
    reverse proxy from the standard apache to the custom setup. This
    removes the need for a custom python27-mod\_wsgi module that was the
    source of numerous headaches.
-   Esmond now requires the selection of an esmond-database package.
    Thiis can either be esmond-database-postgresql (what was supported
    in previous versions) or esmond-database-postgresql95 which support
    postgresql 9.5 as provided by SCL. The latter will be used on
    toolkit systems also running pScheduler. Any existing metadata will
    be automatically migrated.
-   Added support for the pscheduler-raw event type
-   Fixed IP authentication when behind a web proxy
-   Added support for pscheduler-run-href event type

### I2Util

-   CentOS 7 packaging
-   Updates to support modern autoconf
-   Fix that defines SYSLOG\_NAMES for only one source file

### LS Cache Daemon

-   CentOS 7 packaging and systemd scripts

### LS Registration Daemon

-   Support for pScheduler registration
-   CentOS 7 packaging and systemd scripts
-   Fixed issue where web service (e.g. oppd, ma, pscheduler) based
    records were losing track of their parent host record
-   Added ability to track whether perfSONAR was installed with
    NeInstall or FullInstall ISO

### MaDDash

-   CentOS 7 packaging
-   Added support for mapped parameters
-   Updated many library dependencies to latest version, including
    requiring java 1.7
-   Added packaging so new perfSONAR graphs get used in place of old
    graphs
-   Added support for detecting most configuration changes without
    needing to restart
-   Added newline to the end of default configuration file to make
    meshconfig-guiagent happy
-   Defaulting to /usr/lib64 for nagios checks in default config

### MeshConfig

-   CentOS 7 packaging and systemd scripts
-   Added perfsonar-meshconfig-agent startup script that detects changes
    faster and consolidates old regulartesting functionality
-   pScheduler support
-   Added support for all missing tool options that are supported by
    pscheduler but were not yet in meshconfig
-   Fixed issue with ping packet\_interval where it should have been
    read as floating point not integer
-   Removed all dependencies on the Toolkit ConfigDaemon
-   GUIAgent is now a daemon instead of a cron job. It reads the mesh
    once an hour and detects local config file changes to
    meshconfig-guiagent.conf without need for restart. It also no longer
    restarts maddash since a restart is not required to pick-up config
    changes.
-   Added support for the *address\_map* option that allows a host to
    communicate with different hosts using different addresses even when
    in the same mesh. This is especially useful in layer2 causes where a
    host communicates with each remote endpoint using a different /30 or
    similar.
-   Related to the previous bullet, added the *exclude\_unmapped* option
    which makes it easier to create "sparse" meshes where only a few of
    the hosts test to each other.
-   Fixed logging permission issues for meshconfig-guiagent
-   Fixed issue where perl considered maddash.yaml filename tainted
-   Updated all test parameters to match pscheduler
-   Properly set reverse URL in disjoint case with combined graphs
-   Added dependency on perl-Mo
-   Updated default path to nagios checks
-   Improved detection of changes to MA authentication settings
-   Removed explicit setting of default summaries
-   Added support for setting custom reference parameters
-   Added created\_by field in meshconfig-agent-tasks.conf so clear
    where test came from
-   Fixed uninitialized concatenation warning when no mesh description
    provided
-   Fixed issue where did not fallback properly to IPv4 mesh URL when
    IPv6 failed
-   Updated meshconfig-guiagent defaults to more sane values
-   Updated agent to define measurement archive only for tests it
    creates, not all tests in file
-   Now support defining multiple MAs of same type
-   Can now set configure\_archives at mesh level in
    meshconfig-agent.conf so only individual meshes have their archives
    configured
-   Added support for simplestream tests and dashboards. Should only be
    used by developers for debugging.
-   Added support for ping and traceroute dashboards to guiagent by
    default
-   Fixed issue where client was not properly timing-out
-   Fixed issue where agent was not setting correct start and end times
    on new tasks
-   Made retry policy a configurable parameter for measurement\_archive
    blocks
-   Removed localhost MAs from default config file. Now will get added
    by perfsonar-core bundle.
-   Added support for bind\_address,lead\_bind\_address and
    pscheduler\_address options that can be useful in certain setups
    with private default routes

### OPPD

-   The Open perfSONAR Perl Daemon (OPPD) is deprecated now. The OPPD
    packages are still installed by a regular perfsonar-toolkit
    installation, but the service is not started.

### OWAMP

-   CentOS 7 packaging and systemd scripts
-   Don't call setpgid() if we are already the process group leader.
    This allows owampd -Z to run under OSX launchd with a plist file.
-   Fix invalid struct timeval values that caused errors on Mac OS X
-   Removed unnecessary logging

### Regular Testing

-   This component no longer exists. The perfsonar-meshconfig-agent
    package obsoletes it and will migrate its configuration file to
    /etc/perfsonar/meshconfig-agent-tasks.conf. The tasks contained
    within will then be submitted by the meshconfig-agent to pScheduler.

### Toolkit

-   CentOS 7 packaging and systemd scripts
-   Updated service listing to show pScheduler and meshconfig-agent.
    Also sorted them
-   Firewalld now used on CentOS 7
-   Added additional host details to main page
-   Added support for interface aliases in interface selection screen
-   List interfaces in UNKNOWN state such as loopback interfaces in
    Toolkit web pages's interface selection menu
-   Added support for throughput "zero\_copy" parameter
-   Update migration scripts for CentOS 6 to 7
-   Fixed broken links to reverse traceroute and reverse ping tools
-   Fixed issue where lo interface was selected as primary
-   Changed cassandra process detection to use process name since
    cassandra package has inconsistent use of pid file on CentOS 7
-   Added htpasswd support to manage\_users script
-   Fixed broken links on toolkit homepage
-   Added pscheduler support to backup scripts
-   Default limits file will also allow 50m UDP tests
-   Removed code that was altering wheel group since perfsonar no longer
    uses that group
-   Fixed bug preventing use of subinterfaces in mod\_interface\_route
    script
-   The configure\_sysctl script now detects OS, interface speed, and
    maximum MTU to determine how best to tune host
-   Removed NDT checks from configure\_nic\_parameters
-   Updated labels on web interface containing the phrase "RPM" to be
    less OS-specific
-   Changed owamp-server regular restart to once a week
-   Created symlink in /var/log/perfsonar to /var/log/pscheduler
-   Created symlink to web admin configuration files in
    /etc/perfsonar/toolkit/web
-   Fixed bug that prevented users from getting added by user management
    script
-   Made traceroute the default over tracepath in GUI
-   Fixed recursive symlinks created by .spec file
-   Moved user prompts out of .bashrc and into /etc/profile.d
-   Fixed call to tracepath in reverse\_traceroute.cgi script

Raw changes
-----------

Updated components:

-   [bundles](https://github.com/perfsonar/bundles/compare/3.5.1...4.0)
-   [bwctl](https://github.com/perfsonar/bwctl/compare/1.6.1...1.6.3)
-   [esmond](https://github.com/esnet/esmond/compare/2.0.4...2.1-2)
-   [graphs](https://github.com/perfsonar/graphs/compare/3.5.1.2...4.0)
-   [i2util](https://github.com/perfsonar/i2util/compare/1.5...1.6)
-   [ls-cache-daemon](https://github.com/perfsonar/ls-cache-daemon/compare/3.5.1...4.0)
-   [ls-registration-daemon](https://github.com/perfsonar/ls-registration-daemon/compare/3.5.1.8...4.0)
-   [maddash](https://github.com/esnet/maddash/compare/1.3...2.0)
-   [perfsonar-nagios](https://github.com/perfsonar/nagios/compare/3.5.1.1...4.0)
-   [mesh-config](https://github.com/perfsonar/mesh-config/compare/3.5.1.2...4.0)
-   [oppd](https://github.com/perfsonar/oppd/compare/3.5.1.1-2...4.0)
-   [owamp](https://github.com/perfsonar/owamp/compare/3.5.0...3.5.4)
-   [perl-shared](https://github.com/perfsonar/perl-shared/compare/3.5.1...4.0)
-   [pScheduler](https://github.com/perfsonar/pscheduler/commits/master)
-   [psTracerouteViewer](https://github.com/perfsonar/psTracerouteViewer/compare/3.5.1...4.0)
-   [toolkit](https://github.com/perfsonar/toolkit/compare/3.5.1.7...4.0)
