---
version: 4.0rc2
supported: false
title: "perfSONAR 4.0rc2 Release Notes"
---

Released {{ page.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y"}}


Features/Changes Highlights
---------------------------

-   ***NOTE:*** Changes are since 4.0 RC1. For a full list of changes
    from 3.5.1 to 4.0 RC1 see the [RC1 release
    notes](../version-4-0-rc1.html)
-   ***NOTE:*** If you are updating from RC1, we highly recommend you
    run the command “pscheduler internal reset” and reboot the host.
    Note this command can take awhile depending on the number of tests
    on the schedule. While not strictly required it will give you a
    clean slate for testing to make sure your host is not suffering from
    any lingering bugs that existed between RC1 and RC2.

### pScheduler

-   Numerous bug fixes and stability fixes (see bottom of this document
    for more details)
-   The *psc* command alias has been removed and you must now use the
    *pscheduler* command.
-   Added new *pscheduler monitor* command to view schedule in real time
-   Added initial support for detecting CPU socket based on selected
    interface for throughput tests

### Graphs

-   Fixed display of testing errors
-   Updated to latest react-time-series library
-   Numerous bug fixes and visual enhancements (see bottom of this
    document for more details)

### MeshConfig

-   Added support for all pScheduler tool options that were missing in
    the MeshConfig .conf file and resulting JSON
-   The agent responsible for updating the MaDDash configuration is now
    a daemon instead of a nightly cronjob. It will check remote meshes
    every 60 minutes (configurable) and automatically detect changes to
    the local meshconfig-guiagent.conf file
-   Added support for "address maps" which tell a host to use a
    different address when interacting with a particular remote host.
    Useful in situations such as when you have hosts communicate across
    different layer 2 circuits using /30 addresses or similar.

### MaDDash

-   Most configuration changes now detected without a restart

Known Issues
------------

-   On hosts with numerous traceroute and/or ping tests, you may
    frequently get errors such as "Unable to schedule test" when trying
    to create a throughput task from the pscheduler command-line. This
    is because throughput tasks currently want no other items on the
    schedule. You can generally get around this by adding the *--slip
    PT10M* option to your command (e.g. *pscheduler task --slip PT10M
    throughput ...*). This will tell the command that it will accept a
    start time within the next 10 minutes as opposed to the default 5
    minutes. This does not affect tests managed by meshconfig-agent
    since by default a very large slip is requested.
-   On sufficiently loaded hosts it is not uncommon for archiving to
    fall behind. This is evidenced by graphs that only have data in the
    past, but the graphs continue to get new data just never in the
    present. We are working on a number of ways to make this process
    more efficient
-   On sufficiently loaded hosts, it is not uncommon for the *pscheduler
    task* to exit before the first run can be scheduled. Generally
    scheduling the first run should be a quick process so we are
    exploring this issue as well

Detailed Fixes and Changes
--------------------------

### Bundles and Shared Libraries

-   Install a default limits file as part of testpoint bundle
-   Dependency on pscheduler-bundle-full in testpoint as opposed to
    individual packages
-   Fixed some error handling in pScheduler perl client
-   Fixed memory rounding errors in memory detection libraries
-   Detecting OpenStack, QEMU and BHYVE virtualization technologies and
    marking as VM in host info used by toolkit web page and
    lsregistrationdaemon
-   Fixed issue where toolkit page would not load because calls made in
    wrong order

### BWCTL

-   No changes

### Central Management

-   No changes

### Esmond

-   No changes

### Graphs

-   Changed opacity of tooltips and added IPv6 values to tooltips
-   Added a load indicator
-   Fixed issues when using multiple MA urls
-   Fixed some formatting issues with host details
-   Added support for URL parameters for tool, ipversion, timeframe,
    start and end
-   Updated react-time-series charts to version 0.10.2
-   Improved display of test errors

### I2Util

-   No changes

### LS Cache Daemon

-   No changes

### LS Registration Daemon

-   No changes

### MaDDash

-   Added support for detecting most configuration changes without
    needing to restart

### MeshConfig

-   Added support for all missing tool options that are supported by
    pscheduler but were not yet in meshconfig
-   Fixed issue with ping packet\_interval where it should have been
    read as floating point not integer
-   Removed all dependencies on the Toolkit ConfigDaemon
-   GUIAgent is now a daemon instead of a cron job. It reads the mesh
    once an hour and detects local config file changes to
    meshconfig-guiagent.conf without need for restart. It also no longer
    restarts maddash since a restart is not required to pick-up config
    changes.
-   Added support for the *address\_map* option that allows a host to
    communicate with different hosts using different addresses even when
    in the same mesh. This is especially useful in layer2 causes where a
    host communicates with each remote endpoint using a different /30 or
    similar.
-    
-   Related to the previous bullet, added the *exclude\_unmapped*
    optionw hich makes it easier to create "sparse" meshes where only a
    few of the hosts test to each other.

### OWAMP

-   Don't call setpgid() if we are already the process group leader.
    This allows owampd -Z to run under OSX launchd with a plist file.
-   Fix invalid struct timeval values that caused errors on Mac OS X

### pScheduler

-   Removed *psc* alias to *pscheduler* command.
-   Added jitter reporting to nuttcp
-   Fixes for hostname checking in throughput test to avoid incorrectly
    triggering BWCTL
-   Fixed throughput test to properly list all inputs in commands like
    *pscheduler monitor*
-   Better error checking of participant lists
-   Made task updates more efficient
-   Added status command to init.d scripts
-   Added *pscheduler internal reset* command to clear out database
-   Fixed packaging issue so pscheduler-server can do warmboots
-   Fixed divide by zero error in ping tool
-   Fixed error in runner where local result was missing
-   Added CLI *pscheduler monitor* command that shows schedule in
    top-like output
-   Now force REST API to use SSL
-   Improved database indexing to speed up a number of operations
-   Time for failed runs that end early shortened so resources are freed
    sooner
-   Added bbr as a congestion control option for throughput tools
-   Fixed issue where limit inversion did not work
-   Increased the fudge factor pScheduler gives OWAMP to complete a task
    to 10 seconds
-   Created new limit type *localif* that matches all address belonging
    to an interfaces on the local host
-   Fixed handling of slip in CLI. Also added support for
    PSCHEDULER\_SLIP environment variable. Default is 5 minutes.
-   Better error handling of case where a run cannot be scheduled
-   Ping test complains when source hostname cannot be resolved
-   Better detection of ip version in ping and trace tools
-   Increased the amount of time *pscheduler tasks* will wait for a run
    to be scheduled from 30 seconds to 60 seconds
-   Fixed malformed JSON output from powstream tool when reporting an
    error
-   Removed -S option from latency test. Now all tests are
    single-participant
-   Cleaned-up error reporting when server returns a generic HTTP error
    with HTML
-   Fixed formatting of floating-point numbers in latency and latencybg
    command-line output
-   Reload limits file automatically without restart
-   Fixed deadlock in owping tool caused by output that was too large
-   Fixed issue with omit interval formatting in BWCTl test
-   Changed *cpu-affinity* to *client-cpu-affinity* and
    *server-cpu-affinity* for throughput tests
-   Automatically detecting CPU socket to use based on interface for
    throughput through numactl. This is critical for high bandwidth
    testing.

### Toolkit

-   Added support for interface aliases in interface selection screen
-   List interfaces in UNKNOWN state such as loopback interfaces in
    Toolkit web pages's interface selection menu
-   Added support for throughput "zero\_copy" parameter
-   Fixed configure\_esmond script that was not always properly
    initializing databases
-   Added /etc/pscheduler files in CentOS 6 to 7 migration scripts
-   Fixed broken links to reverse traceroute and reverse ping tools
-   Fixed malformed .bashrc scripts caused by bad updates from the
    toolkit package

Raw changes
-----------

Updated components:

-   [bundles](https://github.com/perfsonar/bundles/compare/4.0-3.rc1...4.0-5.rc2)
-   [graphs](https://github.com/perfsonar/graphs/compare/4.0-3.rc1...4.0-6.rc2)
-   [maddash](https://github.com/esnet/maddash/compare/2.0-9.rc1...2.0-10.rc2)
-   [mesh-config](https://github.com/perfsonar/mesh-config/compare/4.0-2.rc1...4.0-5.rc2)
-   [owamp](https://github.com/perfsonar/owamp/compare/3.5.1...3.5.2)
-   [perl-shared](https://github.com/perfsonar/perl-shared/compare/4.0-3.rc1...4.0-7.rc2)
-   [pscheduler](https://github.com/perfsonar/pscheduler/compare/1.0-7.rc1...1.0-15.rc2)
-   [toolkit](https://github.com/perfsonar/toolkit/compare/4.0-5.rc1...4.0-10.rc2)
