---
version: 4.0.2
supported: false
title: "perfSONAR 4.0.2 Release Notes"
---

Released {{ page.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y"}}


Features/Changes
----------------

### Improved pScheduler Archiving Performance

-   Archiver plug-ins now support "streaming" mode. This limits the
    number of new processes that need to be spawned on hosts with a high
    volume of results to archive. For example, this can greatly reduce
    CPU usage and load on systems running a high number of OWAMP tests.

### pScheduler JQ Support

-   Advanced feature that includes [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq)
    support for in-line JSON manipulation
-   For archiving, allows one to transform JSON result into a different
    format without the need to write a new pScheduler plug-in
-   For limit system allows transformation of downloaded CIDR lists and
    additional ability to make pass/fail decisions
-   Expect a future webinar on this topic

### pScheduler Context Plug-in Support

-   New plug-in type added called Contexts that allows modification of
    execution environment before a task is run
-   The first (and currently only) plug-in of this type has ability to
    setup network namespaces prior to task execution

### pScheduler SNMP Plug-ins (Beta)

-   The University of Michigan has developed a beta pScheduler plug-ins
    for interacting with SNMP data. None of the plug-ins are installed
    by default but can be installed via yum or apt-get.
-   This includes the following **test** plug-ins:
    -   **pscheduler-test-snmp-get** - fetches snmp values
    -   **pscheduler-test-snmp-getbgm** - fetches snmp values and
        monitors for deltas
    -   **pscheduler-test-snmp-set** - sets SNMP values.
-   It includes the **tool** plug-ins **pscheduler-tool-net-snmp**,
    **pscheduler-tool-net-snmp-set** and **pscheduler-tool-pysnmp** that
    implement the above tests
-   It includes an **archiver** called **pscheduler-archiver-snmptrap**
    that allows one to generate SNMP traps from pscheduler results

Detailed Bug Fixes and Changes
------------------------------

### pScheduler

-   Improved safety of automatic program restarts.
-   Added a key parameter and corresponding command-line options that
    require presentation of the key to make modifications to an existing
    task from remote hosts.
-   Added plugins and task configuration for changing execution context
    (notably Linux network namespace) before running a task's tool.
-   Added an identifier to the limit system which makes yes/no decisions
    based on the requester and server IPs using a JQ script.
-   Added a limit which makes pass/fail decisions using a JQ script.
-   Added a small library of JQ functions useful in transforms.
-   API added the ability to filter on server-added details when
    querying tasks.
-   Changed the interface to archivers to use a streaming I/O instead of
    invoking each one per result.
-   Added a the ability for the ip-cidr-list-url limit to use JQ to
    transform downloaded JSON into the required plain-text format.
-   Added pScheduler-specific verb limits to eliminate problems caused
    by OS vendor fix for CVE-2017-9798.
-   Made edits of pg\_hba.conf by packages atomic to prevent potential
    for file to be empty or missing

### Bundles and Shared Libraries

-   Improved handling of UTF-8 characters in library functions that read
    configuration files and interact with APIs
-   Added additional checks to URLs given to esmond clients to make sure
    they are only used as intended
-   Fixed issue that caused hanging when trying to reach LS bootstrap
    file

### Esmond

-   Upgraded to Django 1.10
-   Better error handling and processing of data in ps\_remove\_data.py
    script. It should timeout less and will not crash if an individual
    query times-out or throws other errors.

### Graphs

-   Adjusted security headers to allow graphs to talk to remote
    measurement archives
-   Minified javascript to increase load time
-   Fixed traceroute URL when more than one MA given to graph
-   Fixed display issue where mouseover did not properly update the
    retransmission value

### LS Registration Daemon

-   Added field host-net-ipv6-enabled which is true if host has a global
    IPv6 address and false otherwise

### MeshConfig

-   Uses pScheduler API to filter out disabled tasks instead of
    downloading them and doing it locally
-   Now properly detects when a background-multi task has not scheduled
    any runs and attempts to recreate it before the 24 hour expiration
-   Added daily restart for agent and guiagent to help protect against
    memory leaks

### OWAMP

-   Updated init script to return code 3 if daemon not running

### Toolkit

-   Improved migrations scripts to use built-in pScheduler backup
    functions
-   Removed **Services** tab since the service list only contained OWAMP
    and deprecated BWCTL
-   Fixed issue where Automatic Updates button displayed incorrectly on
    Scientific Linux
-   Fixed issue where selecting Norway was not registered because the
    abbreviation NO was evaluated as false

Raw changes
-----------

Updated components:

-   [bundles](https://github.com/perfsonar/bundles/compare/4.0.1...4.0.2)
-   [esmond](https://github.com/esnet/esmond/compare/2.1.1...2.1.2)
-   [graphs](https://github.com/perfsonar/graphs/compare/4.0.1...4.0.2)
-   [ls-registration-daemon](https://github.com/perfsonar/ls-registration-daemon/compare/4.0.1...4.0.2)
-   [mesh-config](https://github.com/perfsonar/mesh-config/compare/4.0.1...4.0.2)
-   [owamp](https://github.com/perfsonar/owamp/compare/3.5.4...3.5.5)
-   [perl-shared](https://github.com/perfsonar/perl-shared/compare/4.0.1...4.0.2)
-   [pScheduler](https://github.com/perfsonar/pscheduler/compare/1.0.1.1...1.0.2)
-   [toolkit](https://github.com/perfsonar/toolkit/compare/4.0.1...4.0.2)
