---
version: 4.1b1
supported: false
title: "perfSONAR 4.1b1 Release Notes"
---

Released {{ page.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y"}}


Features/Changes
----------------

### pSConfig

-   pSConfig is a new component that replaces the old MeshConfig
    component. It is a template framework for defining the tasks to be
    run by hosts. The templates can be used to not only configure the
    tasks on each host through pScheduler but also to display their
    results through MaDDash. See the introduction to pSConfig
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/psconfig_intro.html)
    for more information.
-   Some major benefits of pSConfig include:
    -   **Increased Extensibility** - pSConfig can take full advantage
        of the extensibility provided by pScheduler. It supports any
        test, archiver or context plug-in installed on your pScheduler
        server. Best of all, as more plug-ins get added, no software
        update is required for pSConfig!
    -   **Consolidated Configuration Format** - pSConfig defines all the
        tasks to be run in a JSON format it refers to as a template.
        There is no conversion between various file formats required as
        there was in MeshConfig. No longer do you need to edit an Apache
        Config-like format and convert it to JSON nor edit yet another
        format referred to a meshconfig-agent-tasks.conf for you local
        agent. Now there is only one format required no matter where the
        template lives.
    -   **Enhanced Control** - pSConfig gives increased control over
        what each agent does. This includes not only familiar operations
        like defining archives locally, but also allows for
        agent-defined transforms of any aspect of the templates after
        they are downloaded. See the documentation
        [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/psconfig_pscheduler_agent.html#modifying-templates)
        for more information
    -   **Better Diagnostics** - pSConfig formats all logs of its agents
        in a parsable format. It also provides command-line utilities to
        help extract useful information from the logs. See the
        documentation for the [pscheduler
        agent](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/psconfig_pscheduler_agent.html#troubleshooting)
        and [maddash
        agent](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/psconfig_maddash_agent.html#troubleshooting)
        for examples.
-   The **pSConfig Web Administrator** (PWA) is a separate component
    that provides a web interface for creating pSConfig templates. It is
    a revision of the former MeshConfig Administrator component that
    entered beta with version 4.0. As such, it can also generate the old
    MeshConfig format for tests using options supported by both formats.
    For more information see the documentation
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/pwa.html).
-   pSConfig uses a completely new JSON format to define templates. That
    being said, it is capable of reading files in the old MeshConfig
    format. This should give some flexibility in terms of when you
    migrate. It is recommended you migrate as soon as all your agents
    are updated to 4.1, since support for the old format will be dropped
    **6 months after the next major release**. For more information on
    migration see the document
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/psconfig_meshconfig_migrate.html).

### TWAMP

-   The Two-Way Active Management Protocol (TWAMP), described in [RFC
    5357](index.html), is an extension of the One-Way Active Management
    Protocol (OWAMP) that supplies two-way or round-trip measurements
    instead of unidirectional capabilities. TWAMP measurements are
    helpful because round-trip delays do not require host clock
    synchronization but can still provide additional accuracy compared
    to tools such as ping. It has the additional advantage that many
    routers are capable of running a vendor's implementation of a TWAMP
    server.
-   A pscheduler plug-in is available named *pscheduler-tool-twping* for
    running tests of type latency or rtt. Periodic measurements can be
    setup via the pScheduler CLI, pSConfig Web Administrator or through
    pSConfig templates setup by hand by specifying tool *twping*

### Docker Support

-   Docker containers will be supported in 4.1 final release for *tools*
    and *testpoint* bundles. See the documentation
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/install_docker.html)
    for more details.

### pScheduler Updates

-   Added support for task re-writing to make on-the-fly changes to
    tasks at ingest to supplement the limit system.
-   Added support for "single-ended" throughput tests that allow for
    testing to a server not running pScheduler.
-   Improved the *pscheduler troubleshoot* command to check the maximum
    transmission unit (MTU) as well as enhanced options for checking on
    IPv4 vs IPv6.
-   Added an *http* test and associated tools for measuring various HTTP
    performance metrics

### BWCTL Deprecation

-   BWCTL is no longer included in new installations of perfSONAR but
    will be left untouched on existing installations. For a complete
    discussion of BWCTL support including timelines and options see the
    [upgrade
    notes](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/manage_update.html#bwctl-support).

### CentOS 6 Deprecation

-   CentOS 6 is not supported for version 4.1. See the documentation
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/manage_update.html#centos-6-support-discontinued)
    for a full discussion of CentOS 6 support and perfSONAR.

### Debian 7 Deprecation

-   Debian 7 is not supported for version 4.1. See the documentation
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/manage_update.html#debian-7-support-discontiuned)
    for a full discussion of Debian 7 support and perfSONAR.

Important Upgrade Notes
-----------------------

-   See the documentation
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/manage_update.html#special-upgrade-notes)
    for a full list of important notes about the upgrade process.

Detailed Bug Fixes and Changes
------------------------------

### Bundles

-   Removed BWCTL dependency from pscheduler-tools bundle
-   Created package *perfsonar-bwctl-compat* as an option for installing
    BWCTL packages and associated pScheduler plug-ins.
-   Replaced dependencies on packages *perfsonar-meshconfig-agent* and
    *perfsonar-meshconfig-guiagent* with *perfsonar-psconfig-pscheduler*
    and *perfsonar-psconfig-maddash* respectively.
-   Added dependency on *perfsonar-psconfig-publisher* to
    *perfsonar-centralmanagement* bundle.
-   *perfsonar-centralmanagement* now sets-up the esmond cleaner cron
    job on install

### BWCTL

-   This component has been removed from all new installations. See the
    [upgrade
    notes](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/manage_update.html#bwctl-support).

### Esmond

-   No changes this update

### Graphs

-   Fixed duplication of paths in esmond URLs

### I2Util

-   Stopped using deprecated sys\_errlist

### LS Cache Daemon

-   No changes this update

### LS Registration Daemon

-   Removed support for registering deprecated or unused services:
    BWCTL, BWCTL MP, OWAMP MP, NDT, NPAD, Mesh, Phoebus and REDDnet
-   Added support for *pscheduler-tests* field on interface records.
    This allows advertisement of types of tests supported by an
    individual interface
-   Disabled test auto-discovery in esmond registration since these
    records generate substantial LS traffic but are unused.

### MaDDash

-   No changes this update

### MeshConfig

-   This component has been removed and replaced by pSConfig

### Nagios

-   Renamed *check\_delay* to *check\_rtt*
-   Fix uninitialized string error caused by version not being set

### OPPD

-   This component is no longer included with new installs. It's
    functionality is replaced by pScheduler.

### OWAMP

-   Extended source code to support TWAMP
-   Fixed issues where execute permissions not set on startup script

### Perl Shared Libraries

-   Added new package *libperfsonar-psconfig-perl* that provides
    libraries in support of pSConfig clients
-   Fixed incorrect logging statements in various libraries that were
    calling warning instead of warn
-   Removed unused references to MySQL in code
-   Remove BWCTL references from code
-   Consolidated toolkit\_version and toolkit\_rpm\_version in Toolkit
    data service to just toolkit\_version
-   Added support for singled-ended throughput tests in libraries that
    support toolkit GUI

### pScheduler

-   Improved diagnostics when restoring configuration and data.
-   Attempt to put old data back in place if database load fails
-   Added MTU diagnostics to the troubleshooter.
-   Troubleshoot command tests archiving
-   Dropped required placeholder when importing tasks using the CLI and
    not changing parameters.
-   Made debugging of REST API server more robust.
-   Added initial support for command completion when using the Bourne
    Again SHell (BASH).
-   Added IPv6 support to the simplestream test and simplestreamer tool.
-   Added IPv6 support to the troubleshooter.
-   Improved handling of decisions about how to contact the local host.
-   Improved propagation of errors into CLI diagnostics.
-   Made clock sync information available in the CLI when a survey shows
    a pair to have large differences.
-   Added pscheduler-tool-twping
-   Added pscheduler-test-http
-   Added pscheduler-tool-psurl
-   Added support for singled-ended parameter to throughput tests
-   Moved BWCTL tools to pscheduler-bundle-extras package
-   Cleaned-up owner of files in /var/run
-   Added protocol field to pscheduler-test-rtt in support of TWAMP
-   Updated WSGI settings to use 10 processes and restart every 2.5
    million requests
-   Improved diagnostics when no tools in common

### pSConfig

-   Completely new component to replace MeshConfig. See
    [documentation](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.1b1/psconfig_intro.html).

### pSConfig Web Administrator

-   Renamed from MeshConfig Administrator to pSConfig Web Administrator
-   Added support for pSConfig templates
-   Added a way to specify central MA(s) for a Config
-   Added a way to archive to end hosts
-   Changed authentication model - registration disabled by default. It
    can be enabled or users can be created via CLI
-   Added support for twping tool (pSConfig-only)
-   Fixed switch breaking hostgroup by switching static to dynamic host
    groups and then back
-   Removed dependency of traceroute tests on a traceroute service in LS
-   Fixed issues where certain host details were not saved properly
-   Added ability to override the global MA in favor of one or more
    local MAs on a host
-   Added ability to add addresses to host that are not in LS
-   Added a way to override the MA URL for hosts
-   Fixed the mesconfig importer

### pSTracerouteViewer

-   No changes this update

### Toolkit

-   Updated pscheduler limits to use rewriter to enforce bandwidth
    limits
-   Added TWAMP rules to firewall
-   Removed references to BWCTL
-   Moved logrotate rules to include file to
    /etc/logrotate.d/perfsonar-toolkit
-   Updates toolkit web interface to save configuration in pSConfig
    format
-   Added psconfig-pscheduler-agent to toolikit services listing and
    removed meshconfig-agent
-   Removed meshconfig-agent from configdaemon
-   Removed no longer used psb\_to\_esmond script
-   Updated JSON service to to replace get\_meshes action with
    get\_templates and return pSConfig template URLs
-   Updated configure\_owamp\_testports to produce pSConfig transform
    file
-   Removed no longer relevant MySQL and web100 references
-   Removed OPPD firewall rules
-   Updated configure\_firewall to check for existence of file it is
    editing
-   Cleaned-up enable\_auto\_updates script to prevent unnecessary
    stderr output during RPM install
-   Fixed issue where login message displayed incorrect version
-   Added script to find tests in archive that are running BWCTL
-   Added psconfig files to backup and restore scripts
-   Added support for single-ended throughput tests in test
    configuration web interface

Raw changes
-----------

Updated components:

-   [bundles](https://github.com/perfsonar/bundles/compare/4.0.2.3...master)
-   [bwctl](https://github.com/perfsonar/bwctl/compare/1.6.6...master)
-   [esmond](https://github.com/esnet/esmond/compare/2.1.2.2...develop)
-   [graphs](https://github.com/perfsonar/graphs/compare/4.0.2.1...master)
-   [i2util](https://github.com/perfsonar/i2util/compare/1.6...master)
-   [ls-cache-daemon](https://github.com/perfsonar/ls-cache-daemon/compare/4.0.2...master)
-   [ls-registration-daemon](https://github.com/perfsonar/ls-registration-daemon/compare/4.0.2.2...master)
-   [maddash](https://github.com/esnet/maddash/compare/2.0.2...master)
-   [mesh-config](https://github.com/perfsonar/mesh-config/compare/4.0.2.1...master)
-   [perfsonar-nagios](https://github.com/perfsonar/nagios/compare/4.0.0.1...master)
-   [oppd](https://github.com/perfsonar/oppd/compare/4.0...master)
-   [owamp](https://github.com/perfsonar/owamp/compare/3.5.5...master)
-   [perl-shared](https://github.com/perfsonar/perl-shared/compare/4.0.2.2...master)
-   [pScheduler](https://github.com/perfsonar/pscheduler/compare/1.0.2.6...master)
-   [pSConfig](https://github.com/perfsonar/psconfig/commits/master)
-   [pSConfig Web
    Administrator](https://github.com/perfsonar/psconfig-web/compare/4.0b1...master)
-   [pSTracerouteViewer](https://github.com/perfsonar/psTracerouteViewer/compare/4.0.1...master)
-   [toolkit](https://github.com/perfsonar/toolkit/compare/4.0.2.5...master)
