---
version: 4.1.5
supported: true
title: "perfSONAR 4.1.5 Release Notes"
---

Released {{ page.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y"}}


Bug Fixes and Changes
---------------------

### Toolkit

-   Re-organized how SSL ciphers are set in apache configuration to
    preserve manual changes to ciphers in future updates. This
    particular update will still overwrite manual changes to implement
    the new strategy, but will be the last release to do so. All
    subsequent releases will leave any changes to ssl.conf alone on
    update. This update puts the perfSONAR recommended values in
    /etc/httpd/conf.d/apache-perfsonar-security.conf. This file should
    be left alone and manual changes should be put in the VirtualHost
    section of /etc/httpd/conf.d/ssl.conf. Since these values are scoped
    local to the VirtualHost, they will take precedence over the
    perfSONAR values.
-   Removed system user migration from backup and restore scripts. This
    is because UIDs are numbered differently between CentOS 6 and CentOS
    7 and was failing in most cases anyways.

### pSConfig/Perl Shared Libraries

-   Updated conversion of MeshConfig to pSConfig to translate MeshConfig
    groups of type "star" to a pSConfig group of type "disjoint" with
    the center-address becoming the sole member in a-members and the
    rest going into b-members. Previously the translation did not
    convert star groups.
-   Updated conversion of MeshConfig to pSConfig to translate a
    MeshConfig toolkit\_url property with the value "auto" to the
    expanded toolkit URL before converting to pSConfig.

### pScheduler

-   Corrected a problem with participant selection for trace tests when
    backward compatibility with BWCTL was involved.
-   Better error handling for invalid hostnames in tests with a source
    and/or destination
-   Improved the safety of the restore process.
-   Improved the way certain failures in post-run processing are
    handled.
-   Correctly throw an error when powstream tool is asked to set ip-tos
    value since it is unsupported by underlying powstream command-line
    tool

Raw changes
-----------

Updated components:

-   [toolkit](https://github.com/perfsonar/toolkit/compare/4.1.4...v4.1.5)
-   [perl-shared](https://github.com/perfsonar/perl-shared/compare/4.1.4...v4.1.5)
-   [psconfig](https://github.com/perfsonar/psconfig/compare/4.1.4...v4.1.5)
-   [pscheduler](https://github.com/perfsonar/pscheduler/compare/4.1.4...v4.1.5)
