---
version: 4.2
title: "perfSONAR 4.2 Release Notes"
supported: true
---

Released {{ page.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y"}}

Features
--------


### New pScheduler Disk-to-Disk Test

-   pScheduler supports a new test type called *disk-to-disk* that
    includes GridFTP and curl tools. For more information on using this
    new feature see the document
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.2.0/pscheduler_disk_to_disk.html).

### pSConfig Web Admin (PWA) RPMs

-   pSConfig Web Admin is now available as RPM packages. This provides
    an alternative to the existing docker containers. See the document
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.2.0/pwa_install_rpm.html)
    for details.

### perfSONAR Ansible Roles

-   Supported Ansible roles are now available to help automate your
    perfSONAR deployment and customize it to meet your needs. See the
    document
    [here](https://github.com/perfsonar/ansible-playbook-perfsonar/blob/master/README.md)
    for details.

### pScheduler Task Priorities

-   pScheduler is now able to apply priority to tasks. The primary use
    case for this feature is to allow tests run from the command-line to
    more quickly get a time slot in cases where the schedule is full.
    See the document
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.2.0/config_pscheduler_limits.html#priorities-which-runs-happen-and-which-do-not)
    for details.

### MaDDash ServiceNow Integration

-   MaDDash is now able to create and manage records in ServiceNow. See
    the document
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/release_candidates/4.2.0/maddash_config_server.html#notifications)
    for details.

### pSConfig Enhancements

-   The pSConfig MaDDash agent can now create dashboards for HTTP and
    DNS tests using default settings.
-   The *psconfig validate* command now does more thorough validation of
    pSConfig templates. This includes validating references and asking
    pScheduler to validate archivers, tests and contexts.
-   Added a new *psconfig agenctl* command to make interacting with the
    pSConfig pScheduler and MaDDash agent easier.

### Lookup Service Enhancements

-   Added support for bulk renewals. This should significantly decrease
    messaging on clients.
-   Added support for signing records to provide a mechanism for
    validating who registered a particular record.

### End of BWCTL pScheduler Support

-   This release marks the final phase of BWCTL deprecation in
    perfSONAR. This version removes remaining support for backward
    compatibility with BWCTL. Older systems with tools supporting BWCTL
    installed will receive upgrades that makes them inert. See
    [docs.perfsonar.net](http://docs.perfsonar.net/manage_update.html#bwctl-support)
    for full details of this process.

### Debian 8 and Ubuntu 14 Deprecation

-   Debian 8 and Ubuntu 14 are not supported for version 4.2. See the
    documentation
    [here](http://docs.perfsonar.net/manage_update.html#debian-8-and-ubuntu-14-support-discontinued)
    for a full discussion of Debian 8 and Ubuntu 14 support and
    perfSONAR.

Bug Fixes and Changes
---------------------

### Esmond

-   Added command *delete\_user\_ip* to remove user IP addresses.
-   Upgraded to Django 1.11.20
-   Fixed RPM to properly enable httpd
-   Updated python library to properly set timeouts
-   Added options to control SSL settings to python libraries

### Graphs

-   Removed centos 6 backwards-compatibility hacks. Specifically,
    node-jsdom is no longer needed, along with its dependencies, which
    were significant.
-   Made the different graph areas more distinct from each other; make
    them brighter white, or add lines in between, or something, to
    divide up the space on the page more
-   Added a note explaining about negative latency to the graphs page,
    if there are negative latency values in the graph
-   Added a /etc/perfsonar/graphs.json file where you can set options
    such as enabling SSL host verification
-   Added an advanced settings panel with addition details about the
    subjects in the graph
-   Added ability to specify start or end date, instead of requiring
    both

### LS Registration Daemon

-   Updated to work with SELinux enabled

### MaDDash

-   Fixed database connection pool exhaustion that occurred when using
    notifications and caused dashboard to not display after a few hours
-   Added configurable privacy notice link to web interface
-   You can now add *?refresh=SECONDS* where SECONDS is the refresh
    interval to a MaDDash url to pre-set the refresh time.
-   Disabled the HTTP OPTIONS method in the default Apache configuration
-   Upgraded c3p0 library to version 0.9.5.4
-   The command property can now be a map keyed on row and column
-   Cleaned-up default YAML file to remove references to outdated
    services and prefer https in URLs

### Nagios

-   Added check\_esmond command for generically checking against fields
    in esmond.

### OWAMP

-   Updated to work with SELinux enabled
-   Updated to work with AppArmor
-   Added cron job to delete old session files
-   Reduced the number of reverse DNS lookups
-   Added SO\_BINDTODEVICE option sockets to better support VRFs
-   Fixed segfault when entering a password
-   Fixed issue with TWAMP where it would not send above a particular
    rate

### Perl Shared Libraries

-   Fixed inherit warning in Lookup Service client libraries

### pScheduler

-   Added a new netreach test that determines whether or not a given
    network has hosts that are reachable, optionally excluding the
    gateway.
-   Migrated from python requests library to PycURL
-   Context information is now passed to archiver plug-ins
-   Fixed troubleshoot command to better handle a mix of IPv4 and IPv6
-   Improved the diagnostics of the simplestreamer command
-   Updated RabbitMQ archiver to keep connections open between
    archivings to improve performance
-   Fixed NUMA detection to consider a specified source when given
-   Adjusted behavior of the iperf3 tool to not use NUMA if the selected
    node cannot run a program
-   Fixed use of traceroute's -s command option on Debian
-   Added an --output switch to the task command for redirecting
    result(s) to file(s)
-   Fixed issue where the *watch* command added extra text to output
    when --format option was used
-   Improved output of messages when task is forbidden by limits
-   Added --skip-single-test option to troubleshoot command
-   Updated latency and latencybg JSON schema to be consistent withdraft
    7
-   Fixed SSL warning that was sometimes displayed on Debian systems
-   Updated HTTP libs to accept HTTP success codes other that just 200
-   Made logging levels between components more consistent
-   Updated troubleshoot command to exercise the database through API
    calls
-   Handling errors found by troubleshooter better
-   Added a new header to the API that allows clients working on behalf
    of other hosts (e.g., pShooter) to securely ask that limits be
    enforced accordingly.
-   Added updated python2-pyasn1-modules packages in support of SNMP
    tests
-   Added output to the clock command that gives better information
    about error state.
-   Upgraded python-jsonschema to 3.0.1
-   Guarded *troubleshoot* command against return values of None by
    ntp\_adjtime()
-   Upgraded jq library to 1.6
-   Added the linuxvrf context for changing VRFs. (Currently functional
    only on distributions running Linux kernel \>= 4.0.)
-   Fixed issue with task rewriter failing on default limits file
-   Updated esmond archiver to store disk-to-disk results
-   Added diagnostics to the iperf3 and iperf tools on failure
-   Reduced lead time for first run of single-participant tasks. (Makes
    some ad-hoc testing happen sooner)
-   Improved debugging in the API service
-   Migrated from ipaddr to ipaddress library to make components
    consistent
-   Added Debian suppor to *version* command
-   Corrected a jq scripting problem where certain large integers were
    being rewritten as floats.
-   Added a headers item to HTTP archiver that passes provided headers
-   The pScheduler account is created as a system user (new installs
    only), login is disabled and the home directory is pointed at a
    temporary directory.
-   Added a local-subnet identifier to the limit system that identifies
    requesters on subnets connected to local interfaces.
-   Fixed issue when a run fails and there's an error present at the top
    of the JSON, result doesn't show it.
-   Added the ability to send failed runs to archivers.
-   Split the Background column in schedule plots to show background and
    background-multi runs separately.
-   Added parameters to the RTT test to allow fragmentation control.
-   Added a version command that lists the version number of all
    pScheduler packages.
-   Improved diagnostic messages when no time is available on the
    schedule for a run of a task.
-   Fixed issue where the filestring() function in the Python library
    overshoots the end of an empty string when looking for a leading
    at-symbol.
-   Added a new url-fetch limit that allows determination of pass/fail
    by querying an external server.
-   Adjusted web server configuration to eliminate failed requests due
    to process turnover
-   Adjusted Apache configs to use Require syntax
-   Allow RabbitMQ archiver's routing key to be determined using a jq
    script
-   Improved CPU utilization by reducing the work done for certain types
    of tasks changes
-   Added additional slop time to idle test to increase chance of
    success on slower/high-load hosts (such as when running the
    troubleshoot command)
-   Updated troubleshoot command to support alternate ports
-   Fixed tracepath test (and troubleshoot command MTU test) to work
    better in high latency situations
-   Fixed potential hostname lookup error in ping test

### pSConfig

-   Fixed issue where pScheduler agent incorrectly set schema number
    when using contexts
-   Fixed an issue where the *flip* template variable incorrectly was
    set when using a mix of agent and no-agent hosts in a group
-   Fixed issue where MaDDash agent ignored the *unidirectional* setting
    of disjoint groups
-   Fixed issue where the archives defined in include files are being
    ignored
-   Fixed issue where pScheduler agent did not set long enough
    expiration for tasks over 24 hours
-   Added ability to cache templates when connectivity goes away. This
    prevents tasks from being deleted due to temporary connectivity
    issues.

### pSConfig Web Administrator

-   Made pSConfig format the default output
-   Fixed issue where users could create non-unique usernames when using
    sca-auth module
-   Fixed issue with throughput tests would not schedule when ip-version
    set
-   Fixed format of duration, repeat interval and omit\_interval
-   Improved handling of host expiration
-   Updated default url path to /pwa so can run more easily with other
    services
-   Made the port of the publisher URL configurable
-   Fixed issue where hosts were sometime duplicated in the
    configuration
-   Fixed issue where additional archives were only added to one but not
    all hosts
-   Made New test button more prominent
-   Added instructions for using the plus-sign buttons
-   Fixed issue where you are asked to abandon unsaved changes when none
    are made
-   Fixed automatic generation of display URL in pSConfig format
-   HTTPS is now the default for archive URLs
-   Upgraded bootstrap to 4.1.2
-   Improved date/time picker
-   Made Slip configurable
-   Changed default config file paths
-   Changed default PWA URLs
-   Simplified deployment
-   Simplifed SSL cert generation

### Toolkit

-   Updated default Apache cipher settings to follow [Mozilla's modern
    profile](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS#Modern_compatibility).
    This is stricter than the Intermediate profile that was previously
    followed.
-   Updated to work with SELinux enabled
-   Removed prompt to add a sudo user if a user in the group pssudo
    already exists.
-   Fixed issue where commas in lat and long values for host info got
    converted to an array in JSON service
-   Ping was renamed in GUI to "round trip" time
-   Removed link to external traceroute visualization interface that no
    longer functioned
-   Added force\_toolkit\_name option to web\_admin.conf to force
    toolkit\_name to be used in display instead of auto-decting
    addresses
-   Added disable\_ls\_lookups to web\_admin.conf to disable lookups in
    cases where interface hangs
-   Numerous small clean-up items on GUI to make things clearer
-   Added TCP tuning settings to JSON service
-   The time range displayed on the graph matches the main page when you
    click the "Details" link for a graph on the main toolkit page
-   Cleaned-up whitespace on web page header
-   Added lock file to esmond data cleaner lockfile tto prevent two
    instances from running at same time

### Miscellaneous

-   Updated group IDs in all packages to be system group IDs
-   Moved mod\_interface\_route from toolkit to testpoint bundle
-   Dropped *-v /var/run* from the suggested docker command in
    documentation since it does not appear to be needed

Raw changes
-----------

Updated components:

-   [bundles](https://github.com/perfsonar/bundles/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [esmond](https://github.com/perfsonar/esmond/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [graphs](https://github.com/perfsonar/graphs/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [ls-registration-daemon](https://github.com/perfsonar/ls-registration-daemon/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [maddash](https://github.com/perfsonar/maddash/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [nagios](https://github.com/perfsonar/nagios/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [owamp](https://github.com/perfsonar/owamp/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [perl-shared](https://github.com/perfsonar/perl-shared/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [pscheduler](https://github.com/perfsonar/pscheduler/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [psconfig](https://github.com/perfsonar/psconfig/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
-   [psconfig-web](https://github.com/perfsonar/psconfig-web/commits/master)
-   [toolkit](https://github.com/perfsonar/toolkit/compare/v4.1.6...v4.2.0)
