---
version: 5.0.5
title: "perfSONAR 5.0.5 Release Notes"
supported: true
---

Released {{ page.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y"}}


Bug Fixes and Changes
----------------------------
### Archive
- Fixed "Too many shards" issue by changing multiple OpenSearch settings:
    - Previously the indices were using the default of 1 replica for each shard, which was doubling the shard count. Given that perfSONAR installs a single instance of OpenSearch, having a replica doesn't actually make sense since youa re not replicationg across multiple nodes. All new installs and upgrades will have the replica count changed to 0. This alone should fix the too many shard issue. 
    - New installs will rollover the indices every 7 days. This does not mean the indices get deleted, just that a new index (and by definition a shard) is created every 7 days. Data will still be retained by default for 6 months, just like previously. Updated installations will not have their policy overwritten in order to protect any manual changes. For most users this should not be required to fix the original shard issue.
    - perfSONAR will now be written using "Data Streams" in OpenSearch, which simplifies the index management described above. This change should be transparent to users. 
- Moved logstash authentication configuration to this package. Previously was split between this package and logstash package which was causing incorrect auth settings on Debian and Ubuntu every time a perfSONAR update was applied. 

### Logstash
- Removed install scripts that were conflicting with OpenSearch auth settings set by archive package.
- Updated ouptut plugin to use OpenSearch data streams

### Nagios

-  Fixed python-pyjq dependency on el9

### pScheduler

-  Removed the version of ping(1) included by Paris Traceroute on Debian and Ubuntu systems.
- Fixed issue with iperf2 plugin not properly generating summary data
- Added work-around for issue on el9 with libtins dependency in dublin-traceroute. Actual probelm is in EPEL provided package, but perfSONAR is providing packages that avoid the issue until corrected in EPEL. 

### Toolkit

-  Fixed typo in pScheduler limits

Raw changes
-----------

Updated components:

-   [archive](https://github.com/perfsonar/archive/compare/v5.0.4...v5.0.5)
-   [logstash](https://github.com/perfsonar/logstash/compare/v5.0.4...v5.0.5)
-   [nagios](https://github.com/perfsonar/nagios/compare/v5.0.4...v5.0.5)
-   [pscheduler](https://github.com/perfsonar/pscheduler/compare/v5.0.4...v5.0.5)
-   [toolkit](https://github.com/perfsonar/toolkit/compare/v5.0.4...v5.0.5)
