---
title: "Celebrating 20 Years of perfSONAR"
categories: news
# permalink: 2025-04-02-perfsonar-20-years.html
permalink: ps20.html
toc: false
tags: [news]
---

<p align="center"><img src="images/posts/2025-04-02-perfsonar-20-years/perfsonar20.svg"/></p>

**perfSONAR Celebrates 20 Years of Simplifying Global Research
  Collaboration Through Standardized Network Measurement and Testing**

**April 2, 2025** - The global research and education (R&E) community
  is celebrating a major milestone in high-performance networking and
  collaboration: the 20th anniversary of
  [perfSONAR](https://www.perfsonar.net). Since April 2005, this
  [powerful, open-source
  toolkit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EO2NiNaASYo) has enabled
  researchers and network operators to measure and troubleshoot
  performance across diverse network environments.

perfSONAR’s reach has extended to all seven continents. With a
[vibrant user community](https://www.perfsonar.net/gtk_whouses.html)
and more than 2,000 registered instances deployed by over 1,000
organizations worldwide, it enables real-time identification of data
transmission issues and supports seamless connectivity for scientific
discovery.

Six R&E network organizations lead the [perfSONAR development
consortium](https://www.perfsonar.net/collab_about.html): the Energy
Sciences Network (ESnet), Indiana University, Internet2 and the
University of Michigan in the U.S.; GÉANT across Europe; and Rede
Nacional de Ensino e Pesquisa (RNP) in Brazil. perfSONAR undergoes
continuous improvement stewarded by the consortium; 20 years and
dozens of releases later, it continues to evolve to meet the growing
demands of an increasingly interconnected R&E community.

## Global Networking Requires Global Partnerships

<p align="center">
  <iframe width="560" height="315"
   src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/EO2NiNaASYo?si=51CMWOJ2B7iWWs8Y"
   title="YouTube video player"
   frameborder="0"
   allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
   referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin"
   allowfullscreen>
  </iframe><br/>
  <i>A short video on how perfSONAR is used in global research</i>
</p>

Global science collaborations depend on researchers being able to
share data across multiple high-performance networks. Hundreds of such
networks are operated by universities, governments, R&E consortiums,
nonprofits and commercial entities, representing a uniquely
heterogeneous mixture of hardware and protocols.

When research teams and data are distributed across different
networks, countries or continents, ensuring consistent network
performance and troubleshooting problems can be challenging. Today’s
large data sets and transfer protocols require predictable, very
low-loss paths. Slow or unpredictable data transfers are not only
frustrating — they can significantly hinder the progress of
research. Compounding this challenge, scientific researchers are not
typically networking experts, while network engineers often focus on
the performance of the networks they operate rather than end-to-end
data flow.

Numerous factors can cause a network to run slower than designed:
congestion, infrastructure flaws such as damaged cabling or hardware,
configuration errors and outdated applications. The problems can span
all layers of network definition and may exist at any portion of an
end-to-end path.

perfSONAR, or the **perf**ormance **Service-Oriented** **N**etwork
monitoring **AR**chitecture, makes it possible for participants to
test key network performance measures and identify and isolate data
transmission problems as they happen. Its extensible, open-source
software suite runs, stores and displays active measurements such as
throughput, packet loss, latency and network path.

perfSONAR measurement nodes are easily created using readily
available, low-cost hardware and the freely available perfSONAR
software. [These nodes can be
added](https://www.perfsonar.net/gtk_why.html) at multiple points
along paths of interest to locate problems and provide quality
assurance: at campus endpoints, demarcations between networks, within
carrier points of presence, at exchange points, and near data storage
and computing resources.

## Measuring on all Seven Continents

<p align="center">
    <img src="images/posts/2025-04-02-perfsonar-20-years/map.png"/><br/>
    <i>A February 2025 map of registered perfSONAR installations</i>
</p>

The seed for [perfSONAR’s
genesis](https://www.perfsonar.net/about_history.html) was an
End-to-End Performance Initiative vision paper published by Internet2
in 2001. By 2004, Internet2 was working with national R&E networks
GÉANT and CANARIE on joint architecture, development and tools. In
2005, ESnet and RNP joined the process, and with the coining of the
perfSONAR name, the project was formally launched.

Since then, perfSONAR has grown in scope and impact. In the early
years of its existence, the founding partners maintained multiple
implementations of the perfSONAR software with aspirations of
interoperability. By 2013, as deployments grew past 1,000, the
organizations realized that it would be easier to support and extend
perfSONAR by pooling resources and jointly developing a single
software product.

The next year saw the formation of the current governance structure of
the perfSONAR Consortium — a significant milestone and a model for
other collaborations in the R&E network community. Indiana University
joined Internet2, ESnet, and GÉANT in the new consortium, whose
partners commit staff expertise and other resources to develop,
maintain and support perfSONAR. The University of Michigan officially
joined in 2016, followed by RNP in 2021.

In 2017, the consortium released a new version of the software, which
included a reimagined extensible version of perfSONAR that has allowed
it to grow from just a few basic tests to include other tools for
testing disks, wireless networks and more. perfSONAR also has evolved
to use standard storage and display software, allowing for easier
integration by other domain science research projects.

In 2023, perfSONAR achieved the milestone of running on all seven
continents when it was deployed at [McMurdo Station in
Antarctica](https://www.nsf.gov/geo/opp/ail/mcmurdo-station) to
validate satellite connectivity. Today, perfSONAR consists of
thousands of deployments around the globe, including over 2,000
registered deployments and likely at least as many private,
unregistered installations.

## The Large Hadron Collider and the Future of perfSONAR

<p align="center">
  <img src="images/posts/2025-04-02-perfsonar-20-years/lhc.png"/><br/>
  <i>A 2024 depiction of the complexity of
  the network architecture connecting multiple R&E networks around the
  world to support the Large Hadron Collider Open Network
  Environment (LHCONE)</i>
</p>

One of perfSONAR’s scientific-collaboration success stories is its
adoption amongst the [Large Hadron
Collider](https://home.cern/science/accelerators/large-hadron-collider)
(LHC) research community. The LHC experiments generate enormous
amounts of data that need to be delivered to scientists around the
globe. This data must traverse a sophisticated network infrastructure
that crosses multiple organizational boundaries before it reaches the
scientists for analysis. Problems at any point in the path can slow
down their workflows or inhibit them entirely. The LHC community
quickly realized it needed to instrument as much of this
infrastructure as possible to pinpoint problems.

perfSONAR presented an ideal solution not only to the technical
challenges of identifying network issues but also to the non-technical
challenges of getting buy-in across the hundreds of collaborating
organizations. The project’s open-source nature, the design centering
on responsibly running measurements between institutions, and the ease
with which it could be shared all led to quick adoption.

Today, there are around 300 deployments across the Worldwide LHC
Compute Grid, running 15-20 million network measurements daily that
have uncovered countless problems over the years. The ability to
diagnose and fix these problems helped the LHC community reach its
desired speed targets of a sustained 2.4 terabits per second in the
[2024 LHC Data Challenge](https://zenodo.org/records/11444180), which
was designed to stress-test the network’s capabilities in preparation
for the [High-Luminosity LHC upgrade currently planned for
2030](https://home.cern/resources/faqs/high-luminosity-lhc). That was
a mere 25% of the coming HL-LHC traffic; the next Data Challenge,
planned for fall 2026, will attempt 50%.

perfSONAR will be ready. The consortium continues to enhance and
refine the base software to add new capabilities and improve the user
experience. In addition, the perfSONAR community is exploring ways to
leverage the wealth of data provided by perfSONAR using AI and other
advanced analytical methods to classify and discover problems more
quickly.

The scope of perfSONAR continues to expand, such as in field-science
environments where new types of testing may be required and additional
constraints exist on resources such as network connectivity and
power. perfSONAR’s stewards will stay focused on the project’s
original mission — to help enable scientific discovery around the
globe by providing fast, affordable, and actionable insight into the
world’s networks.


## Celebrating 20 Years of perfSONAR at Community Events

The R&E community will commemorate perfSONAR’s 20th anniversary at
several upcoming events. These gatherings offer opportunities to
engage with community experts and explore the future of network
performance measurement.

 * [Internet2 Community Exchange](https://na.eventscloud.com/website/76216/), April 28 to May 1 in Anaheim, California
 * [RNP’s annual workshop (WRNP)](https://indico.rnp.br/event/106/), May 19-20 in Natal, RN, Brazil
 * [TNC25](https://tnc25.geant.org/), June 9-13 in Brighton, United Kingdom


## About the perfSONAR Consortium Members

### Energy Sciences Network (ESnet)

[Energy Sciences Network (ESnet)](https://www.es.net/) operates a
high-performance network built to support and facilitate scientific
research across America and worldwide. Funded by the U.S. Department
of Energy’s (DOE) Office of Science and managed by Lawrence Berkeley
National Laboratory, ESnet connects the DOE national laboratories,
supercomputing facilities, and major scientific instruments, as well
as additional research and commercial networks, to enable global
collaboration on the world’s biggest scientific challenges. ESnet
colocates perfSONAR deployments at each of its 60+ router locations in
the United States and Europe. Regularly scheduled test routines verify
network performance on ESnet’s core network, across transatlantic
connections, to DOE labs and our partner networks around the globe.

### GÉANT

[GÉANT](https://geant.org/) is the collaboration of European National
Research and Education Networks (NRENs). Together we deliver an
information ecosystem of infrastructure and services to advance
research, education, and innovation on a global scale. The GÉANT
project combines a high-bandwidth, high-capacity network with a
growing range of services. These allow researchers to collaborate,
working together wherever they are located. Together with European
NRENs, GÉANT connects 50 million users in over 10,000 institutions.

### Indiana University

For more than 25 years, GlobalNOC at [Indiana
University](https://www.iu.edu/) has grown alongside the R&E
networking community, expanding from a handful of people supporting
Internet2’s Abilene network to more than 140 world-class service desk
technicians, engineers, and developers who support partner
organizations from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) to regional networks such as Rhode Island’s OSHEAN. The
GlobalNOC community currently includes 30+ network partners in
research, education, public service, and municipal operations, ranging
from small and local to global in scope and impact.

### Internet2

[Internet2](https://internet2.edu) is a non-profit, member-driven
advanced technology community founded by the nation’s leading higher
education institutions in 1996. Internet2 delivers a diverse portfolio
of technology solutions that leverages, integrates, and amplifies the
strengths of its members and helps support their educational,
research, and community service missions. Internet2’s core
infrastructure components include the nation’s largest and fastest
research and education network that was built to deliver advanced,
customized services that are accessed and secured by the
community-developed trust and identity framework.

### University of Michigan

The [University of Michigan](https://www.umich.edu/)'s Information and
Technology Services (ITS) Infrastructure team designs, implements,
manages, and supports the university's data and telecommunications
networks. We ensure the networks accommodate daily traffic and provide
the speed and bandwidth required for research, while also allowing for
customized changes. Our goal is to ensure that our network never
hinders data-intensive science needs involving computing, storage, and
networking. We have deployed perfSONAR appliances in our network core
and data centers and are working to expand this to include
comprehensive perfSONAR deployment across the Core Network and BIN, as
well as specific meshes for schools, colleges, and the campuses of
UM-Ann Arbor, UM-Dearborn, and UM-Flint.

### Rede Nacional de Ensino e Pesquisa (RNP)

The [National Education and Research Network
(RNP)](https://www.rnp.br/en) connects universities and
innovation-driven institutions through secure, high-performance
internet and digital services—the RNP System. As a federal
government-linked social organization, RNP supports public education
and research policies, fostering collaboration and technological
advancement. With a mission to promote the innovative use of advanced
networks, RNP enables Brazilian science to share knowledge and engage
globally, driving progress in education, research, and national
development. perfSONAR is a strategic tool for RNP, supporting key
operational processes such as the certification of network circuits
across all RNP's 27 Points of Presence (PoPs) and the calculation of
availability and performance indicators for Brazil’s academic network,
the Ipê network.
